- The first file system used by the linux is extended file system or ext which is unix based file system. It uses virtual directories to mount the real hardware storages.
- It follows an inode mechanism which create a inode table in each physical device and assigns inode values for each files.
- The inode number is used to track the files instead of full file names.
- As the extent means the file information not only store file name but also owner, group, permissions, file size, etc.

The ext2 filesystem helps reduce fragmentation by allocating disk blocks in groups when you save a file. By grouping the data blocks for a file, the filesystem doesn’t have to search all over the physical device for the data blocks to read the file.

- But these ext2 file system has limitations as this directly write the file to the device and updates inode table.
- So the journaling system was found. Which will store the file in temp file called journal and after successful written to the storage the journal is deleted.
- The current version of the file system is the ext4 which uses the journaling and also supports large amount of the data.
- Three types of journaling:

- Data mode - Both inode and file data are journaled. Low risk of losing data, but poor

performance.

- Ordered mode - Only inode data is written to the journal, but not removed until file data is

successfully written. Good compromise between performance and safety.

- Writeback Mode - Only inode data is written to the journal, no control over when the file data is

written. Higher risk of losing data, but still better than not using journaling.

Partitions:

- We can use the fdisk utility to partition and maintain the disk
- We can see all the available partitions using the -l flag.
- Then using fdisk partionname  to select the partition. When we select a partition there will be a prompt window where we can do activities on the disk
- Use the p command to see the current partition table
- For new partitions use the n command. There will be two types of partitions where the primary one and the extended one. The primary one contains disk but  the extended one contains only the primary partitions.
- If we use the  l command in the console we can see the different file systems which are there where the default one is 83
- W is for the write command which will be useful in writing the changes
- To use an partition we must format it with the linux file systems like ext4.
- There are specific commands for each file systems like mkfs.ext4.
- So use the specific command and then the disk partition name.
- Then we should mount this partition with an directory to use it. It can  be done using the mount command in the linux.
-  It has a main param which is the -t param where we should mention the file system.
- To repair an file  system use the fsck command. It has many options
- The fsck uses the  /etc/fsck file to detect the partitions. Which are need to be repaired.
- But the problem is that we can only use the fsck tool in the unmounted disks only
- The linux logical volume management is used to do the expansion process very easily for the expansion of the file systems and also adding the new disks
- The LVM (Logical package management ) tool for the logical volume management which means we dont need to copy the files from old one to new one we can expand the partition size it self using these tools
- The volume group is the multiple physical volumes which are combined to a single volume.
- The Logical Volume is the last part which is considered as an single volume in the linux and common file systems can be set.
- We can split a single volume group into many logical volumes as per our needs
- Use the t command in the fdisk menu to set the type of the filesystem in the partition to be  Linux LVM (8e)
- Then we can use the LVM to acquire that partition or the disk
- Then we should tag that partition as physical volume using the pvcreate command
- We can use the pvdisplay to display the details of the physical volume.
- Then we need to create a volume group using the vgcreate command with volume group name and the physical volume.
- The vgdisplay is for showing the property of the created volume group
- Then after that we use the lvcreate command to create a logical volume in the volume group.
- The -l param used in lvcreate command is to set how much percentage of free space in the volume group can be used.
- For example:

- lvcreate -l 100%FREE -n logvol1 Vol1

- If we want to see the details of the logical volume we need to use the volume group name with the lvdisplay command.
- We have sets of commands in the Linux for the change and modification in the volume groups and also the logical volumes.