* A branch is a fundamental way of starting an separate line of  development in existing project in the git.
* The merge is an option to combine two branches into single one. This will be maximum done to the extra branch to main as a component.
* There are many advantages to the branches in the git like if we want to preserve the older version we can do it using a new branch.
* The default name of the branch in the git is the master which is the main branch. We can rename or delete the master branch.
* We can create hierarchal branch names like Unix path names like bug/123.
* There are some rules in the naming of an branch.
	* The name can use / but should not end with it.
	* The name cannot started with - sign.
	* No slash separated component can use . inside it.
	* The name cannot contains two consecutive dots anywhere.
* The most recent commit of an branch is the head of the branch.
* We can think branch as an pointer to certain commits which is only visible to the pointer.
* The create a new branch we can use the *git branch (branch name)* is the command to go or we can use the *git checkout -b (branch name)* as an alternative. 
* We can mention what commit we want to clone from after the git branch command to specify the clone. If we don't mention the commit we want to clone then the clone is done on the most recent commit in the current branch.
* We can see the remote branch names with the -r flag in the branch command.
* And if we want all the branches then we use the -a flag.
* The git show-branch will provide extra information about each branch and the commits of them.
* We can switch between branches using the *git checkout branch name* 
* When we switch the branch then the working tree and files and directories are affected and changed.
* We cannot switch the branches before we checkout it.
1. `git branch`: This command lists all the branches in your repository, including the current branch you are working on. 
2. `git checkout <branch-name>`: This command switches your working directory to the specified branch, allowing you to work on that branch. 
3. `git branch <branch-name>`: This command creates a new branch with the specified name. 
4. `git checkout -b <branch-name>`: This command creates a new branch with the specified name and switches your working directory to that branch. 
5. `git merge <branch-name>`: This command merges the changes from the specified branch into the current branch. 
6. `git pull origin <branch-name>`: This command pulls changes from a remote repository into the current branch.
7. `git push origin <branch-name>`: This command pushes changes from the current branch to a remote repository. 
8. `git branch -d <branch-name>`: This command deletes the specified branch. 
9. `git branch -m <old-name> <new-name>`: This command renames the specified branch to the new name. 
10. `git checkout .`: This command switches your working directory to the current branch.
* The git branch deletion is trickier as we cannot delete the current branch we are in and we cannot delete the branch which is having extra commits than the branch we are in.