* Helm is an package manager for the kubernetes where we can maintain the packages in kubernetes cluster.
* It helps to reduce many manual jobs like searching for the components in the internet for a single service.
* For example if we use a elastic search for logging then we need some stateful set for DB, services, config maps, etc for it. Searching for separate components is tedious. So using the helm we can do this easily.
* Helm is like a docker hub which has collection of yaml files as a chart(term used in helm) where we can access other peoples charts.
* We can use the helm to create a own helm chart also. The database apps and the monitoring apps will have the helm charts for them so we don't need to do the tedious work.
* We can also use the helm as an template engine where we will define some template for the config file. We can define common blueprint for the templates and we can have a placeholder for changing values.
*  We can also use the helm in the place where we deploy same application is deployed in many places like development, production,etc.
* The helm chart will have a directory structure. The`Chart.yaml`is a file which is the meta data of the chart.
* Then the `values.yaml` is the values for the template files in the chart.
* The chart directory in the helm chart where the dependencies of the chart are residing. Where the templates folder is where the real templates are found.
* When we use the `helm install` command then the templates in the chart will be filled with the values in the `values.yaml`.
# Volumes:
* The data persistence is an problem in the kubernetes as the data storage is not directly supported by the kubernetes.
* We need to use the concept of volumes to have a persistent storage in the kubernetes clusters.
* The first rule is that the storage should be persist after the pod dies also. Then the second rule is that the storage must be available to all the nodes.
* Then the storage needed to survive after the cluster crashes also.
* Persistent volume is an concept in the kubernetes where it is a cluster resource like the RAM or CPU and can be configured using the yaml file where the kind is `PersistentVolume`.
* The point to note is that Persistent volume is an interface provided by the kubernetes and the real physical storage or the cloud storage are needed to be decided and maintained by the admin.
```
apiVersion: v1
kind: PersistentVolume
metadata:
  name: pv-name
spec:
  capacity:
    storage: 5Gi
  volumeMode: Filesystem
  accessModes:
    - ReadWriteOnce
  persistentVolumeReclaimPolicy: Recycle
  storageClassName: slow
  mountOptions:
    - hard
    - nfsvers=4.0
  nfs:
    path: /dir/path/on/nfs/server
    server: nfs-server-ip-address
```
* This is a example for the config file for the persistent volume in the kubernetes. The spec is the section where we can have the details of the real storage device or the cloud device.
* The point to note is that persistent volume is not name spaced because it is available to all the nodes.
* The problem with the local storage is that it will not be available to all the nodes and it can also crashes when the system crashes.
* The kubernetes persistent volumes are configured by the kubernetes admin and used by the developers who deploy their application in the cluster.
* So when a developer need to access the persistent volume storage from the cluster he needs to claim the volume. So the component used in this scenario is the persistent volume claim.
* It is also created with the yaml configuration in the pod side. For example:
```
kind: PersistentVolumeClaim
apiVersion: v1
metadata:
  name: pvc-name
spec:
  storageClassName: manual
  volumeMode: Filesystem
  accessModes:
    - ReadWriteOnce
  resources:
    requests:
      storage: 10Gi
```
* So we need to use the claimed persistent volume in the pods config file(yaml). Like in the volume section of the pod configuration or the deployment configuration like:
``` 
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: mypod
spec:
  containers:
    - name: myfrontend
      image: nginx
      volumeMounts:
      - mountPath: "/var/www/html"
        name: mypd
  volumes:
    - name: mypd
      persistentVolumeClaim:
        claimName: pvc-name
```
* If a pod need to claim a persistent volume then the persistent volume claim should be in the same namespace of the pod.
* 