* Terraform is a tool for changing and versioning infrastructure safely and efficiently. [[2.Configuration]]
* The goal of DevOps is to make software delivery vastly more efficient. That means that you manage your infrastructure not by clicking around a web page or manually executing shell commands, but through code. This is a concept that is typically called infrastructure as code.
* The idea behind infrastructure as code (IaC) is that you write and execute code to define, deploy, update, and destroy your infrastructure. 
* There are five categories of IaC tools:
	* Ad hoc scripts
	* [ ] Configuration management tools
	* Server templating tools
	* Orchestration tools
	* Provisioning tools
### Ad Hoc Scripts: 
*  You take whatever task you were doing manually, break it down into discrete steps, use your favorite scripting language (e.g., Bash, Ruby, Python) to define each of those steps in code, and execute that script on your server
* For example:
```
# Update the apt-get cache
sudo apt-get update
# Install PHP and Apache
sudo apt-get install -y php apache2
# Copy the code from the repository
sudo git clone https://github.com/brikis98/php-app.git
/var/www/html/app
# Start Apache
sudo service apache2 start	
```
* The great thing about ad hoc scripts is that you can use popular, general- purpose programming languages, and you can write the code however you want. 
* But the common language and the Ad hoc scripts are the important.
### Configuration Management tools:
* There are many configuration management tools like ansible, puppet, etc. Which are the one which install and manages the existing servers. 
* For example, here is an Ansible role called web-server.yml:
```
- name: Update the apt-get cache
apt:
update_cache: yes
- name: Install PHP
apt:
name: php
- name: Install Apache
apt:
name: apache2
- name: Copy the code from the repository
git: repo=https://github.com/brikis98/php-app.git
dest=/var/www/html/app
- name: Start Apache
service: name=apache2 state=started enabled=yes
```
* There are many advantages in the management tools like this:
	* Coding conventions: It is consistent, predictable structure, etc.
	* Idempotent: Code that works correctly no matter how many times you run it is called idempotent code.
	* Distribution: Ansible and other configuration management tools are designed specifically for managing large numbers of remote servers,
### Server Templating Tools:
* Instead of launching a bunch of servers and configuring them by running the same code on each one, the idea behind server templating tools is to create an image of a server that captures a fully self-contained “snapshot” of the operating system (OS), the software, the files, and all other relevant details.
* To working with the Server templating tools there are two methods:
	* Containers
	* Virtual machines
### Orchestration Tools:
* The orchestration tool is to manage and handle the containers from the server management tools. There are many use cases of the orchestration tools.
* Handling these tasks is the realm of orchestration tools such as Kubernetes, Marathon/Mesos, Amazon Elastic Container Service (Amazon ECS), Docker Swarm, and Nomad. For example, Kubernetes allows you to define how to manage your Docker containers as code.
### Provisioning Tools:
* Provisioning tools such as Terraform, Cloud Formation, Open Stack Heat, and Pulumi are responsible for creating the servers themselves.
* For Example:
```
resource "aws_instance" "app" {
instance_type
= "t2.micro"
availability_zone = "us-east-2a"
ami
= "ami-0fb653ca2d3203ac1"
user_data = <<-EOF
#!/bin/bash
sudo service apache2 start
EOF
}
```
* This creates an Apache server in the AWS cluster.
## Working of Terraform:
* Terraform is an open source tool created by HashiCorp and written in the Go programming language. The Go code compiles down into a single binary.
* under the hood, the terraform binary makes API calls on your behalf to one or more providers, such as AWS, Azure, Google Cloud, Digital Ocean, Open Stack, and more.
* We need to configure terraform configuration so that it can make calls to the Cloud providers on behalf of us.
* You can define your entire infrastructure—servers, databases, load balance's, network topology, and so on—in Terraform configuration files
* You then run certain Terraform commands, such as terraform apply, to deploy that infrastructure.