* We can use the ASG(Auto Scaling Group) in AWS to manage the clusters for us. Where the cluster of servers are used to balance the traffic.
* The first step is to create a launch configuration for the ASG which configure how to configure each EC2 instance in the ASG.
* aws_launch_configuration uses almost same parameter like aws_instance. But it doesn't support tags which will be configured in the autoscaling_group config.
* The `ami` is now `image_id` and the `vpc_security_group_ids` is now `security_groups`.
* So the example is 
```
resource "aws_launch_configuration" "example" {
  image_id        = "ami-0fb653ca2d3203ac1"
  instance_type   = "t2.micro"
  security_groups = [aws_security_group.instance.id]
  user_data       = <<-EOF
            #!/bin/bash
            echo "Hello, World" > index.xhtml
            nohup busybox httpd -f -p ${var.server_port} &
            EOF
}
```
* The original ASG is the part of another resource where we specify this launch config like:
```
resource "aws_autoscaling_group" "name" {
  launch_configuration = aws_launch_configuration.example.name
  min_size             = 2
  max_size             = 10
  tag {
    key                 = "Name"
    value               = "terraform-example"
    propagate_at_launch = true
  }
}
```
* As the terraform resources are immutable it will delete the old and deploy the new but when there are many clusters the terraform cannot delete it as it is required. So for that there is a settings called lifecycle.
* So when we set a lifecycle setting like `create_before_destroy` to true the instances are created before deletion. The config must be in the launch configuration.
* We can also add the subnets config to have various subnets to be used in the EC2 instances of us. So that if there is a outage in one data centre it will not affect another one. So for setting it we use the data source object in the setting.
* The format is the:
```
data "<PROVIDER>_<TYPE>" "<NAME>" {
	[CONFIG ...]
}
```
* Here the provider is `aws_vpc` and the default must be true. We can combine with other data source like the aws_subnets to get the filter.
* Like :
```
data "aws_subnets" "default" {
	filter {
		name = "vpc-id"
		values = [data.aws_vpc.default.id]
	}
}
```
* Then we use this in the autoscaling group config using the `vpc_zone_identifier`.