- Terraform offers several different looping constructs, each intended to be used in a slightly different scenario:
	- `count` parameter, to loop over resources and modules
	- `for_each` expressions, to loop over resources, inline blocks within a resource, and modules
	- `for` expressions, to loop over lists and maps
	- `for` string directive, to loop over lists and maps within a string
- Every Terraform resource has a meta-parameter you can use called count. count is Terraform’s oldest, simplest, and most limited iteration construct: all it does is define how many copies of the resource to create.
```
resource "aws_iam_user" "example" {
count = 3
name = "neo.${count.index}"
}
```
- Like other programming languages we can get the elements of an array in the tf file like: `ARRAY[<INDEX>]`
- First we need to create the array using the variable then we can iterate through it:
```
variable "user_names" {
description = "Create IAM users with these names"
type = list(string)
default = ["neo", "trinity", "morpheus"]
}
// Usage:
resource "aws_iam_user" "example" {
count = length(var.user_names)
name = var.user_names[count.index]
}
```
- There are some limitations in the `count` they are:
	- First, although you can use count to loop over an entire resource, you can’t use count within a resource to loop over inline blocks.
	- When you use the count parameter on a resource, that resource becomes an array of resources. When you remove an item from the middle of an array, all the items after it shift back by one
- To solve these two limitations, Terraform 0.12 introduced for_each expressions. The for_each expression allows you to loop over lists, sets, and maps to create (a) multiple copies of an entire resource, (b) multiple copies of an inline block within a resource, or (c) multiple copies of a module.
```
resource "<PROVIDER>_<TYPE>" "<NAME>" {
for_each = <COLLECTION>
[CONFIG ...]
}
```
- `CONFIG` consists of one or more arguments that are specific to that resource. Example is that we can use the config to set values or the keys:
```
resource "aws_iam_user" "example" {
for_each = toset(var.user_names)
name = each.value
}
```
- The fact that you now have a map of resources with for_each rather than an array of resources as with count is a big deal, because it allows you to remove items from the middle of a collection safely.
- 