## Item 1: Use the static factory method instead of the constructor.
* Normally a class will provide a constructor for the object building but there is a static facatory method to do the same thing. For Example:
```
public static Boolean valueOf(boolean b){
    return b?Boolean.TRUE:Boolean.False;
}
```
* This translates boolean primitive to Boolean object reference.
* There are many advantages to the static factory methods:
    1. Unlike constructors they have names.
    2. Unlike constructor they are not required to create a new object each time they are invoked.
    3. Unlike constructors that can return an object of any subtype of their return type.
    4. The return object class need not to be exist when the class containing the method is written.
    5. Class of returned object can vary from call to call as a function of the input parameter.
* The main limitation of the static factory method is that when we use the static factory only then there can be no subclass creation.
* Then the names of the methods are need to be explicitly mentioned in the documents so that the programmers can use it.
## Item 2:Use the Builder when faced with many constructor params
* When there are many optional parameters in the class in the java there are two methods the programmers used to handle it.
The first one is the telescoping where there are explicitly separate constructors for each and every combination of the parameters.
* Then the next one is the JavaBeans method where there are many setters in the class to set the value of the field and the deafult for the optional one.
* These two methods are ok but they are not efficient so we use the Builder pattern where we consider a seperate extra class inside the desired class and use it to build the class.
* The example is:
```
public class Main {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
      System.out.println("Hello, World!");
      Testing tes = new Testing.Builder(30,40).hai(5).build();
      System.out.println(tes.hello);
    }
}
public class Testing{
  final int hello;
  private final int hello1;
  private final int hai;
  
  public static class Builder{
    final int hello;
    private final int hello1;
    private int hai = 0;
    public Builder(int h1,int h2){
      this.hello = h1;
      this.hello1 = h2;
    }
    public Builder hai(int h){
      hai = h;
      return this;
    }
    public Testing build(){
      return new Testing(this);
    }
  }
  private Testing(Builder builder){
    hello = builder.hello;
    hello1 = builder.hello1;
    hai = builder.hai;
  }
}
```
* So this is where the things gets intresting where we can return the Builder in the parameter setting method called `hai()`. This means that in the client call the    `Testing.Builder(30,40).hai(5).build()` the `.` syntax is the chaining where each one return a object which is chained into one.
* The Builder pattern is so useful in the subclassing like when an another class want to have a builder method it can inherit a builder from an another class.
## Item 3:Enforce the singleton property with a private constructor or an enum type:
* A singleton class is an class which is instantiated only once or an static propert class.
* There are two common way to implement singleton. The both uses the private constructor and the public static member to provide the access to the single instance. The first one is to use the member as a final field.
* Then the second one is the using the static factory method as a public member.
```
// Singleton with static factory
public class Elvis {
private static final Elvis INSTANCE = new Elvis();
private Elvis() { ... }
public static Elvis getInstance() { return INSTANCE; }
public void leaveTheBuilding() { ... }
}
```
* The main problem of the serialization of the instance when the deserialization happens then there will be a copy so we use the techniques to overcome this.
* So first one is the readResolve method where we return a object of the Instance only.
* But the most successfull and used method is the enum method where we use a enum to deliver the singleton instance.
```
public enum Elvis {
INSTANCE;
public void leaveTheBuilding() { ... }
}
```
## Item 4: Enforce noninstantiability with private constructor:
* Attempting to do the non instantiation cannot be done by the abstract because they can have the subclass and there are the implementation.
* So we need to use other kinds of techniques like private constructor. If we set the constructor private with the AssertionError() then the class cannot be invocked within the class also. As the subclass required a super constructor which is private in this case.
```
public class UtilityClass {
// Suppress default constructor for noninstantiability
private UtilityClass() {
throw new AssertionError();
}
... // Remainder omitted
}
```
## Item 5: Prefer Dependency Injection to hardwire resources:
* The dependency is the a resource which is required for a classes object to work correctly.
* So when a utility class like spellCheck is created the dependency is static utility or the singleton class so there is no flexibility to change the dependency as per the user desire(This means dependency is completely attached to the dependent one). So there will be more errors.
* So we need to use the pattern of dependency injection to inject the required depedency during class instantiation.
* Like the dictionary is an dependecy and it is injected to the spell checker using the constructor or static factory or builder.
```
public class SpellChecker {
private final Lexicon dictionary;
public SpellChecker(Lexicon dictionary) {
this.dictionary = Objects.requireNonNull(dictionary);
}
public boolean isValid(String word) { ... }
public List<String> suggestions(String typo) { ... }
}
```
* So in this example as the dependency is being injected from the constructor the class will only depend the dependency during the instantiation.
## Item 6: Avoid creating unnecessary objects:
* The usage of the constructor will do some harms like creation of the object each time we do the call.
* So instead we use the static factory to do the instantiation on the immutable objects.
* The object immutability will do great changes as there are security where the object cannot be modified.
* If an instantiation is expensive do it in the isolated side and use the thing in the process
```
// Reusing expensive object for improved performance
public class RomanNumerals {
private static final Pattern ROMAN = Pattern.compile(
"^(?=.)M*(C[MD]|D?C{0,3})"
+ "(X[CL]|L?X{0,3})(I[XV]|V?I{0,3})$");
static boolean isRomanNumeral(String s) {
return ROMAN.matcher(s).matches();
}
}
```
* In this example the pattern is the thing which is called multiple times in the isRomanNumeral so we instantiate in the seperate var so that the performance is improved.
* Using the string equals which will reduce the performance in the go.
* Then ommit the autoboxing which means use the primitives instead of the boxed primitives. Like `long` instead of `Long` because as the Long is instantiated then there will a object creation so the program would be slowed.
* But the point to note is that the object creation blocked in the scenario of the necessary is the worst which will create bugs so we need to consider to create objects at the correct time.
* 