- The Jenkins is an CI/CD platform which is the process of Continuous Integeration and Continuous Deployment. Where the CI means multiple people working in the same project in an continuous manner.
- Where the CD means we can continuously deploy the application in the server. As there are many tools the Jenkins has an unique advantage like plugins (More than 100 plugins). 
- To use the Jenkins we need the java in the machine to use the Jenkins. Then the daemon will start and the admin page will be in the port 8080. Use the install the default plugins so that no problem in there.
- Jenkins is an automation platform which allows us to build, test and deploy software's in an automated manner using pipelines. We can automate anything using the Jenkins and then it provides a Web GUI to do these things. 
## Best Practises:
- Automated job definition which means jenkins can automatically create, update, delete jobs according to the repositories it identifies in our Software configuration management.
- The organisation folders is an way by the Jenkins which automatically include the new repository created by an team member into the multi line pipe lining.
- Jenkins pipeline is a suite of plugins that supports implementation and integrating CD  pipelines into Jenkins.
- We can use the agents instead of controllers to build where it is safe and secure. And we can configure the Jenkins so that it will show the errors to the right person and don't disturb others.
- The Jenkins controller plays an crucial role as a central resource which needs management for optimal performance. We should not disable the security of the controller which is default in the jenkins.
## Projects and Credentials:
- The projects or the jobs which is the thing Jenkins uses to perform its work. There are several types of projects:
	- Pipeline
	- Multi-branch pipeline
	- Organisation folders
	- Freestyle
	- Multi-configuration
	- Maven
	- External job.
- The pipeline is the best type of project to work with than the freestyle due to many reasons like durability which means if the controller goes down during the job is running the pipeline will backup after the controller comes up but the freestyle is struck and then the freestyle jobs are need to be chained to be a single job but the pipeline is already a single job with multiple steps.
- We can clone a project, move a project, etc to an project in the Jenkins.  
- The third party applications like cloud storage providers can also need to access the Jenkins so that the admin can configure credentials in the application for the dedicated users. The credentials are maintained by the `Credentials Binding Plugin`.
- It can store the Secret text, Username and password, SSH username with key, Certificate, etc. It stores this in the encrypted form in the controller Jenkins instance.
- To create an Jenkins credentials we can go the `manage jenkins -> Credentials -> Jenkins -> Global -> add credentials`.
## Fingerprinting:
- When we have the interdependent projects then it is hard to track which version of a file used which version of the dependency file. But the Jenkins supports file fingerprinting to track dependencies.
- To make this work we need to be configured to Record fingerprints of the files like when there is TOP, MIDDLE, BOTTOM projects and if the TOP depends on `bottom.jar` then we should record the fingerprint of that file in the TOP and BOTTOM.
- We can configure a job to record fingerprints of a file or set of files in the `Configure -> Post-build actions -> post-build -> Record fingerprints` in the job.
- The fingerprint of a file is simple MD5 checksum and not the whole file. 
## Remote Access API:
- Jenkins provide machine consumable remote access API to its functionalities where there are three types:
	- XML
	- JSON
	- Python
- Just visiting `addressOfJenkins/api/` will show the top-level API features available in the listing of configured jobs for that instance. But we can also do the things like specific build information also.
- Remote API can be used to do things like these:
	- retrieve information from Jenkins for programmatic consumption.
	- trigger a new build
	- create/copy jobs
- When Jenkins is secured then the HTTP basic authentication can be used to the authenticate the remote API requests. But we can set the authentication as we want like token based, etc. 
- There are many language wrappers for the API wrappers which is used in the specific languages for the accessing of the specific API using the language like for python `JenkinsAPI, Python-jenkins`, etc.
## Agents:
- The Jenkins controller is the central agent which controls all the agents and the agent is an term which means an isolated machine which can be an virtual machine, a cloud instance like EC2, a container, etc. 
- The agent will be controlled and jobs are assigned to them by the main controller which is the installation of the Jenkins in the main machine. Basically any machine which can run java can be a Jenkins agent and can be controlled by the controller.
- It is best and optimised practise to build and do any job in the Jenkins agent and not in the controller. To run this agent we need:
	- Java Installation
	- Jenkins Installation
	- Docker Installation
	- SSH key pair.
- First create an SSH key pair using the `ssh-keygen` command and set the key in the Jenkins controller where we create a Jenkins SSH credentials in the `manage credentials`.
- Using the docker we can run the `docker-ssh-agent` image in the machine which we want (now local machine).
```
docker run -d --rm --name=agent1 -p 22:22 \
-e "JENKINS_AGENT_SSH_PUBKEY=[your-public-key]" \
jenkins/ssh-agent:alpine-jdk
```
- Then we can add the Jenkins agent as the docker container using the `Manage Jenkins -> Manage Nodes and clouds` options and create a new node. We set the credentials as we need and set the working directory and the SSH key and also some other information.
- So when we run a build we can use this agent like:
	- First select `Restricted where this project can be run`.
	- Then fill the field label with agent name which we had give it.
- Then we try to build the job the agent will take care of it and run it for the controller.
## JMeter:
- We can use the JMeter with the Jenkins for the load test automation as we know the JMeter is for the load testing the performance written in the java.
- Apache JMeter may be used to test the performance of static sites, dynamic sites, and complete web applications. It can also be used to simulate a heavy load on a server, group of servers, network, or object, allowing for strength testing or overall performance analysis under different load types.
- We need to install the `perfomance` plugin in the Jenkins and then install the JMeter in the machine.
