- The shared library concept in the pipeline is an vast one and has many benefits and it reduce much more amount of work.
- We use the shared library as an template or reusable code so that the code is reused in an precise manner.
- For example when we need to do something when a variable turns to 0 then we can have a groovy function as a package element and can use it.
- The directory structure of the shared library should contains three folders mainly `src, vars, resources` . The vars is the folder which is now discussed. This is where the functions are stored and the other two are for the other purposes:
```
(root)
+- src                     # Groovy source files
|   +- org
|       +- foo
|           +- Bar.groovy  # for org.foo.Bar class
+- vars
|   +- foo.groovy          # for global 'foo' variable
|   +- foo.txt             # help for 'foo' variable
+- resources               # resource files (external libraries only)
|   +- org
|       +- foo
|           +- bar.json    # static helper data for org.foo.Bar
```
- The `vars` directory hosts script files that are exposed as a variable in Pipelines. The name of the file is the name of the variable in the Pipeline. So if you had a file called `vars/log.groovy` with a function like `def info(message)…​` in it, you can access this function like `log.info "hello world"` in the Pipeline.
- A `resources` directory allows the `libraryResource` step to be used from an external library to load associated non-Groovy files. We can add a global shared library in the `Manage Jenkins -> System -> Global Pipeline Librarires`.
- The library declaration is done using the groovy syntax. Where the underscore is denoting all the things in the library.:
```
@Library('my-shared-library') _
/* Using a version specifier, such as branch, tag, etc */
@Library('my-shared-library@1.0') _
/* Accessing multiple libraries with one statement */
@Library(['my-shared-library', 'otherlib@abc1234']) _
```
- But if we want to load the library just for the vars then the syntax is so simple `library 'my-shared-library`. We can define global variables in the vars folder like this:
```
// vars/log.groovy
def info(message) {
    echo "INFO: ${message}"
}

def warning(message) {
    echo "WARNING: ${message}"
}
```
- And in Jenkins file we can mention it as 
```
@Library('utils') _
log.info 'Starting'
log.warning 'Nothing to do!'
```
- 