- We can create a ansible.cfg in the same directory for the configuration. So this configuration file will hold all the information like default inventory file, default key file, etc which will shorten the command and structure is like 
```
[defaults]
inventory = inventory
private_key_file = ~/.ssh/ansible
```
- Then the command is just `ansible all -m ping`. The `ansible all --list-hosts` will list all the host in the ansible systems in the inventory. The `ansible all -m gather_facts` which is a module which is the all the information of the server which is running like OS, environment variables, etc.
- Then we use the flag `--limit IP` for the specific server name in the inventory. 
### Commands With Elevated privileges:
- The commands which modify the system of the server or any other modification is the privilege commands which will not run in normal time like `ansible all -m apt -a update_cache=true` which is an update module with the argument of update but this will fail.
- So we need to use the sudo like thing in the ansible to run the privilege commands which is the two flags `--become --ask-become-pass`. Which will update the system when there is a internet connection to it.
- The `--become` will tell the system as the sudo user then the next one is for the password asking. For this apt module we has many options like installing the packages and upgrading.
- To use multiple arguments then we need the quotes like `"update_cache=true SECOND_ARGUMENT"`. 
### Playbooks:
- These are files which are used in the ansible to automate the tasks with the `.yml` extension(yaml file). The plays are the commands which ansible will use to bring the server to the required state.
- 