* We add a row in the database using the `insert` keyword with the values of the predefined columns. The point to remember is that we need to set the correct datatype values as we set in the creation of the table:
```
insert into employee_table 
values (1, "cristiano", "ronaldo", 100.34, "2024-03-22");
```
* We can add multiple rows in a single statement using the syntax:
```
insert into employee_table 
values (2, "lionel", "messi", 1.34, "2024-03-22"),
	   (3, "luiz", "suarez", 13.4,"2024-03-22");
```
* The date value format should not be changed as this will raise an error.
* When we use this syntax and if we forgot to insert a column value there will be the error so when we use another syntax where we mention what are the columns we need insert then there is no error as the not inserted will be null:
```
insert into employee_table (employee_id,employee_first_name,employee_last_name)
values (5, "arjen", "robben");
```
* We can select specific column names using the same `select` syntax but using the specification `select employee_first_name,employee_last_name from employee_table;`
* There is main clause which is the `where` clause in the select statement which allows to set a condition to show:
```
select * 
from employee_table
where employee_id < 3;
```
* All the operators in the programming languages like not, greater than or equal to, etc. in the where clause.
* But instead of the `=` in the where clause when we check for the null value we use the `is` like `hire_date is NULL`.
- To update an row in the table then we use the `update` syntax with the `set` and `where` keywords like:
```
update employee_table 
set hourly_pay = 100,
	join_date = "2023-08-09"
where employee_id = 5;
```
* We have to careful when using this update statement where without the `where` clause all the row data will be modified and it would be chaous.
- Then we use the `delete` statement to delete the row using any specific `where` clause like:
```
delete from employee_table 
where employee_id = 5;
```
- Here also need to be careful as this will create a chaous if we don't use the `where` which delete all the rows.
## Auto Commits and Commits:
* When we try to do an operation on the database we may been done something wrong so we need to revert back.
* So the option auto commit is the one which automatically save the state of the DB after the execution of the command.
* So when we turn off the auto commit using the `SET AUTOCOMMIT = OFF` then we should manually commit the changes.
* So when we accidentally done something we can change it by without committing it to the DB.
* But we should note that we should done a `commit` in the past to `rollback` to it. For example when we finished inserting columns we should do the statement `commit`. 
* Then after some time we had accidently did something wrong then we need to use the command `rollback` so that it will go to the last `commit` state of the database.
## Date and Time:
* The date and the time of current time can be retrieved by some functions in the MYSQL. So first we can create a database with the date, time and date time.
```
create table test (d date, t time, dt datetime);
insert into test  values(current_date(),current_time(),now());
select * from test;
```
