- The unique keyword is for defining a column which should consist only the unique values where we can define this constraint at the creation of the table or later.
- When we create a table we use the `unique` keyword in the definition of the data type. Like:
```
create table products
(
	product_id INT unique,
	product_name VARCHAR(30),
	price DECIMAL
);
```
- Then after creation we use the alter table to do the same thing .
```
alter table products 
add constraint 
unique(product_name);
```
- So when we tried to insert a two same element in the unique column then there will be a error.
- The not null constraint is to set the column values where the values should not be null otherwise there will be an error. The syntax for creating a table with the not null is same as the unique constraint but the alteration is different.
```
alter table products 
MODIFY price decimal NOT NULL;
```
### Check:
- This is a method to check for specific constraints during inserting into the table like the greater than equals, equals, etc.
- The syntax for the check constraint during table creation is adding an row to it like:
```
create table products
(
	product_id INT unique,
	product_name VARCHAR(30),
	price DECIMAL,
	constraint check_name check (price >= 100.00)
);
```
- Here the constraint is used to set the name for the check so we can drop it in the future when we don't need it.
- Then the alter is used to modify a existing table like:
```
alter table products 
add constraint check_price check (price >= 100.00);
```
- Then to drop the constraint we use the same alter table with the drop check as a option like
```
alter table products 
drop check check_price;
```
### Default:
- The default constraint will used to set the column to have a default value other than null when we don't insert anything in that column during row insertion.
- If we are creating a table just add the default in the data type specification section like `product_price INT DEFAULT 0`.
- But if we want to modify a existing table then we need to use the alter with alter command like:
```
alter table products 
alter price set default 0;
```
- Then we can also so the same for the current date and time like setting the default one as the `Now()` function which will automatically insert the current date and time.
- The point to remember is that as there is default value it doesn't ensure that we don't need to insert anything and leave it blank. There will be an error so we need to use the values to be inserted syntax in the insert statement like:
```
INSERT INTO products (product_id,product_name)
values (...)
```
