- There are many inbuild functions in the MYSQL so that the data manipulation is easy. We can search the functions names in the mysql website documentation.
- The function can be given aliases names also using the `as` keyword.
```
select count(customer_id) as count
from customer;
```
## Logics:
- These are the keywords used to combine more than one conditions in a orderly manner.
- There are many operators like `AND, OR, NOT, BETWEEN, IN`. The `AND` is used to check if both conditions are true and `OR` is for any one is true.
- `NOT` is a negation where we can find all the other things other than mentioned one. The `BETWEEN FIRST_VALUE AND SECOND_VALUE` is used to find values in-between those values.
- The `IN` operator is used to check whether the value is present in side a set of values we provide.
```
select * 
from customer
where customer_id = 2 and customer_first = "elon";

// OR
select * 
from customer
where customer_id = 2 or customer_first = "mark";

// NOT
select * 
from customer
where NOT customer_id = 2;

// BETWEEN 
select * 
from customer
where customer_id between 2 and 4;

// IN
select * 
from customer
where customer_first in ("jeff","mark");
```
## Wildcards:
- There are two wildcards in the MYSQL where we can represent characters instead of it.
	- \% - Which represent the any number of character.
	- \_ - which represent single character.
- We can use these wildcards to so the jobs where we need to find something in the bulk data.
```
select *
from customer
where customer_first like "m%";
// _
select *
from customer
where customer_first like "m_rk";
```
- Here we need to note that the like operator is used instead of the equals operator due to matching.
## Order By:
- This is a feature in the sql where we can order the table by the specified column and specified method like ascending and descending.
```
select * 
from customer 
order by customer_first, customer_id;

// DESC
select * 
from customer 
order by customer_first desc;
```
- Note that another thing in the ascending order syntax `customer_id` which is the second parameter which will be helpful if it has same first names.
## Limit:
- It would be used to limit the number of records shown in the result like number of rows.
- There is a pretty good usage of the limit with the `order by` where we can get the highest or the lowest using this.
- There is an offset option in limit which will start the record which means if we set offset to 1 then the start is 2.
```
select * 
from customer 
order by customer_last limit 2, 1;
```
## UNIONS:
- As the join joins the table in a horizontal or side by side manner the union will join them by up and down or vertical.
- There is a slight problem where the number of columns selected from table 1 should be equal to number of column selected in table 2.
```
select * from customer
union
select * from transactions;
```
- Here the number of columns are equal but if it is not we need to select the specific columns to make them compatible:
```
select customer_first,customer_last from customer
union all
select employee_first_name, employee_last_name from employee_table;
```
- Note the `all` in the `union` which means allow the duplicates also from two tables.
### Self Joins:
- The self join is used to join the table with copy of itself which is used when we want to compare two columns of a table.
```
select *
from employee_table as a
inner join employee_table as b
on a.employee_id = b.employee_id;
```
