- The `on delete` is an clause used to manipulate the delete of the foreign keys as it will cause an error.
- There are two types of `on delete`. The first one is the `set null` which will replace the Foreign Key with the null value when it is deleted.
- The second one is the `cascade` which will delete the row of the foreign key.
```
create table transactions (
	transaction_id int primary key,
    transaction_name varchar(50),
    customer_id int,
    foreign key(customer_id) references customer(customer_id)
    on delete set null
    // on delete cascade
);   
```
- This is when the creation of table but altering table is different. If we have a foreign key already just drop it and create the foreign key with the constraint.
```
// Deleting existing one
alter table transactions drop foreign key trans_const;

alter table transactions 
add constraint trans_key
foreign key(customer_id) references customer(customer_id)
on delete set null;
// on delete cascade
```
## PROCEDURES:
- When we need to use a query often we can store the query as a stored procedure in the SQL database.
- But when we create a procedure we need the delimiter `;` to end statements inside the procedure but this will change the actual ending of the statement so we need to use the change of delimiter at beginning of the creation and change it back like:
```
delimiter $$
create procedure get_transactions()
begin 
	select * from transactions;
end $$
delimiter ;
```
- Then to call a procedure we use the `call PROCEDURE_NAME()` which will execute the statement or the statements.
- To drop an procedure we use the `drop procedure PROCEDURE_NAME`.
- We can use the parameters inside the parameter call which will be used inside the procedure call like `customer_id` in the customer table where we need specific customer data like `find_data()`.
```
delimiter $$
create procedure get_customer_byID(in id int)
begin 
	select * from customer
    where customer_id=id;
end $$
delimiter ;
```
- We can pass in as many as parameters we want in this like `PROCEDURE_NAME(in id int, in name varchar(50))`.
## TRIGGERS:
- A trigger is an something we want to do routinely after or before an operation or an event like before inserting handle errors or before update check data, etc.
- For example we need a trigger for a yearly salary when the updation in the hourly pay so that the both sinks.
```
create trigger before_hourly_pay
before update on employee_table
for each row
set new.salary = (new.hourly_pay) * 2080;
```
- The syntax we need to understand in first line setting the name for the trigger and in second line mentioning what is the time (BEFORE, AFTER) and what is the operation (INSERT, UPDATE, DELETE). In third line we mentioned that do the trigger for every row.
- The `new` keyword is to mention the SQL to consider the new value for the updating. So now whenever we update the `hourly_pay` then the salary automatically changes accordingly.